Awesome

Hi!!

1.1 Vocab Notes:

Bit - Smallest united of data represented by 0 or 1.

Byte - a contagious sequence of eight bits.

1024 bytes =kilobyte, 1024 kilobytes = megabyte, 1024 megabyte = terabyte.

Binary, decimal, and hex conversions - converting between bases 2,10, and 16.

Application software- computer program(s) designed for end users (examples: word, iTunes).

System software - platform for application software (windows, macOS, iOS).

Primary memory - temporary memory (cache, RAM).

Secondary Memory - Permanent memory (hard drive, database, file).

Ram - Random Access Memory (working memory)

JRE - Java Runtime Environment
JVM - Java Virtual Machine
JDK - Java Development Kit
API - Application programming Interface (tools that help developers).
AWT - Abstract Window Toolkit
Class - An object's definition consisting of attributes, constructors, and behaviors.
Object - A specific instance of a class (8 bytes).
Method - An action. Or behavior that an object or a class performs.
Main Method - The only method needed to create an app
Syntax error - Incorrectly writ encode that causes a failure in program execution
Logic Error - Error in code that causes incorrect or unexpected results
Protocol - A communication standard (example: Raising your hand in order to speak).
TCP/IP - Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol to access the web, such as searching something up.
WWW- World Wide Web.
HTTP - Hypertext Transfer Protocol -> HTTPS - HTTP Secured.
Variable - A quantity that changes
Constant - A quantity that does not change.

Types of Variables - int,double,String,char,boolean,long,short,float,byte,object

Primitive Data Types
Int-Integer variable type that is 4 bytes in size.
Double - decimal variable type that is 8 bytes in size
Char - a single character variable type that is 2 bytes
Boolean - a true/false variable type that is 1 bit
Long - integer variable type that is 8 bytes
Short - integer variable type that is 2 bytes
Float - a decimal variable type that is 4 bytes 
Byte - an integer data type that is 1 byte (stores: 128 to 127)
Note: object is a complex data type not a primitive data type
Scope - Variable visibility

Integers - + ,- ,*,/,%, compound operators, pre-increment, post increment
Boolean logic - And (&,&) Or (||), Not (!)
Truth table - Mathematical table used to show boolean logic

DE Morgan's Laws - factoring and distributing a NOT

Control structures - sequential, if, else, switch, while do...while, for
	Sequential - one step at a time
	Selection if, else, switch
	Repetition - while,do...while, for

Random Number - a generated integer or double using the Random or Math API

Getter - an accessor method used to give access to a private instance variable (attribute)
Setter - a mutator method used to change a private instance variable (attribute)

One Dimensional Array - a data used to store data in an indexed list format
Two Dimensional Array - a Dara structure used to store data in an indexed tabular format

Arraylist - a dynamic array used to store data in an indexed list format with the ability to grow and shrink during program execution.

END-------------------------------------------------------



